README.md, before:

# SolidResume

**SolidResume** is a work-in-progress Hugo Module for building a **single-page CV** website.  
The goal is to provide a clean, responsive, and printable design that follows modern web standards and produces structured, machine-readable data where appropriate.

## Quickstart

### Using SolidResume as a Hugo Module

You can import SolidResume into your existing Hugo site as a module. This allows you to keep your CV content separate and benefit from updates to the SolidResume module.

1. Initialize your Hugo site (if you haven't already):
```bash
hugo new site MyCV
cd MyCV
hugo mod init github.com/<your-username>/MyCV
```

2. Add SolidResume as a module dependency in your site's `config/_default/hugo.toml`:
```toml
[module]
  [[module.imports]]
    path = "github.com/evensollid/SolidResume"
```

3. Download the module and tidy dependencies:
```bash
hugo mod get github.com/evensollid/SolidResume@latest
hugo mod tidy
```

4. Place your CV data (YAML/JSON) inside your site's `data/` directory. SolidResume reads CV content from the consuming project's data files, not from within the module itself.

5. Start the development server:
```bash
hugo server -D
```

Open http://localhost:1313 in your browser to see your CV.

### Local test site (exampleSite)

This repo includes an `exampleSite/` folder with dummy CV data for local testing only. The root module contains no example content; all placeholder data lives under `exampleSite/data/`. If you want to test and develop against the example site, see the [exampleSite/README.md](exampleSite/README.md) for more information.

## Configuration Boundary

This module intentionally does not define site-level settings. Consumers must set these in their own site config (`config/_default/hugo.toml`), while the module only exports layouts, assets, i18n, archetypes, and theme data.

- Set in your site:
  - `baseURL`, `languageCode`, `title`
  - `defaultContentLanguage`, `defaultContentLanguageInSubdir`
  - `[languages]` (and per-language params)
  - `[outputs]`, `[pagination]`
  - `[params]` (including theme defaults and author image)
  - `[markup.goldmark.renderer].unsafe`
  - `[privacy]`

- Provided by the module:
  - `layouts/`, `assets/`, `i18n/`, `archetypes/`, `data/themes/`

Use `exampleSite/config/_default/hugo.toml` as a reference for a working setup, and copy only what you need into your own site.

## Theming

SolidResume supports multiple color palettes out of the box:

- **Default Light** / **Default Dark** (auto-mode follows system preference)
- **Solarized Light**
- **Solarized Dark**
- **Nord**

Themes are data-driven (`/data/themes/*.yaml`) and can be extended with your own palettes. The theming system is integrated via Hugo Modules and can be customized in your site's configuration.

### Configuration

In your `config/_default/hugo.toml`, set the default theme:

```toml
[params.themes]
default = "auto"
```

## Install & Update (Hugo Modules)

- Install (after adding the import in Quickstart):
  ```bash
  hugo mod get github.com/evensollid/SolidResume@latest
  hugo mod tidy
  ```

- Pin a version:
  - Choose a tag and pin in your module cache:
    ```bash
    hugo mod get github.com/evensollid/SolidResume@vX.Y.Z
    hugo mod tidy
    ```
  - Your site’s `go.mod` will record the pinned version.

- Update later:
  - Get the newest compatible version:
    ```bash
    hugo mod get -u github.com/evensollid/SolidResume
    hugo mod tidy
    ```
  - Or jump to a specific tag:
    ```bash
    hugo mod get github.com/evensollid/SolidResume@vX.Y.Z
    ```

- Optional: Vendor the module (offline/CI stability):
  ```bash
  hugo mod vendor
  ```
  This writes dependencies to `/_vendor/`. Commit that directory to keep builds reproducible without network access. To stop using vendor, remove `/_vendor/` and run `hugo mod tidy`.

## Troubleshooting Modules

- Check module graph: See what Hugo resolves and from where.
  ```bash
  hugo mod graph
  ```

- Clean cache: Fix stale downloads or version drift.
  ```bash
  hugo mod clean
  hugo mod tidy
  ```

- Clear vendored deps: If using `/_vendor/`, remove it to force re-resolve.
  ```bash
  rm -rf _vendor/
  hugo mod tidy
  ```

- Cache directory errors: If you see “cacheDir must resolve to an absolute directory”, pass an absolute path.
  ```bash
  hugo --cacheDir "$PWD/.hugo_cache"
  ```

- Network-restricted builds: Prefer vendoring for CI/offline.
  ```bash
  hugo mod vendor
  ```

- Update Hugo: Module issues often clear up by updating to a recent Hugo Extended.
  ```bash
  hugo version
  # Install or upgrade per your OS
  ```

- Local development against a fork: Use in your own site only (not in production) to test local changes.
  ```toml
  [module]
    [[module.imports]]
      path = "github.com/evensollid/SolidResume"
  # go.mod in your site (not in this module)
  # replace github.com/evensollid/SolidResume => ../path/to/local/module
  ```

## Languages

SolidResume supports multilingual sites. Each language needs:

- A language entry in your `config/_default/hugo.toml` under `[languages]`.
- A corresponding CV data file at `data/cv/<lang>.yaml` (or `.json`/`.toml`).
- Optional: an i18n translation file at `i18n/<lang>.toml` for UI strings.

### Enable multiple languages

```toml
defaultContentLanguage = "en"
defaultContentLanguageInSubdir = true

[languages]
  [languages.en]
    languageName = "English"
    weight = 1

  [languages.nb]
    languageName = "Norsk"
    weight = 2

  # Add more languages as needed
  [languages.de]
    languageName = "Deutsch"
    weight = 3
```

### Add a new language’s content

1) Create a data file `data/cv/<lang>.yaml`, e.g. `data/cv/de.yaml`.
2) Include at least `profile.name` so the title renders. See “CV Data Format” below.
3) UI translations: if your language isn’t bundled, add `i18n/<lang>.toml` in your site with keys used by the theme (e.g., `about`, `experience`, `education`, `projects`, `skills`, `languages`, `contact`, `download_pdf`).

The language switcher shows all configured languages; the current language is not a link.

## Author Image

Place your avatar in `static/` and set:

```toml
[params.author]
image = "/img/author.jpg"  # absolute path or full URL
```

The image renders in the header. A square image works best.

## CV Data Format

Store CV data per language, e.g. `data/cv/en.yaml`, `data/cv/nb.yaml`. YAML example with supported sections and fields:

```yaml
profile:
  name: "Your Name"           # required (used for the page title)
  role: "Your Role"           # optional
  location: "City, Country"   # optional
  email: "you@example.com"    # optional
  url: "https://your-site"    # optional
  summary: |
    One or two short paragraphs about you.
  links:                       # optional; rendered inline
    - label: "LinkedIn"
      url: "https://linkedin.com/in/you"
    - label: "GitHub"
      url: "https://github.com/you"

experience:                    # optional list; omit to hide section
  - company: "Company A"
    role: "Senior Engineer"
    start: "2022-01"          # recommend ISO-8601 (YYYY or YYYY-MM)
    end: "2024-06"            # omit or remove for current role
    summary: "Short blurb of impact and scope."
    bullets:
      - "Achievement or responsibility one"
      - "Achievement two"

education:                     # optional list
  - school: "University X"
    degree: "B.Sc. in Y"
    start: "2018"
    end: "2021"

projects:                      # optional list
  - name: "Project Name"
    url: "https://project.example"
    summary: "What it is and your role."

skills:                        # optional flat list
  - "Go"
  - "Hugo"
  - "Accessibility"

spoken_languages:              # optional list
  - name: "English"
    level: "Native"
  - name: "German"
    level: "Professional"

contact:                       # optional; renders a simple list
  email: "you@example.com"
  website: "https://your-site"
```

Notes:
- Any top‑level section can be omitted; templates only render sections that are present and non‑empty.
- Dates:
  - Use ISO formats `YYYY`, `YYYY-MM`, or `YYYY-MM-DD` for `start`/`end` to get machine‑readable `<time datetime="…">` markup.
  - For ongoing roles, set `end: "Present"` (or your localized equivalent). Non‑ISO values render as plain text (not inside `datetime`) to keep HTML5 valid.
  - Alternatively, omit `end` entirely for current roles.
- Links in `profile.links` render inline with separators.
- Data is read from the consuming site, not from within the module.

## Roadmap

- [x] Basic Hugo module scaffolding
- [x] Data-driven CV content (YAML/JSON) in consuming project
- [x] Multilingual setup
- [x] Theming support via Hugo Modules
- [ ] Print stylesheet for PDF export
- [ ] SEO + structured data integration

## Contributing

Contributions, ideas, and feedback are welcome! Please note that the project is in an early stage, so discussions and issue reports are especially valuable.

## License

MIT © Even Roland Sollid

Commit message:

additional languages provided for ui strings

README.md, after:

# SolidResume

**SolidResume** is a work-in-progress Hugo Module for building a **single-page CV** website.  
The goal is to provide a clean, responsive, and printable design that follows modern web standards and produces structured, machine-readable data where appropriate.

## Quickstart

### Using SolidResume as a Hugo Module

You can import SolidResume into your existing Hugo site as a module. This allows you to keep your CV content separate and benefit from updates to the SolidResume module.

1. Initialize your Hugo site (if you haven't already):
```bash
hugo new site MyCV
cd MyCV
hugo mod init github.com/<your-username>/MyCV
```

2. Add SolidResume as a module dependency in your site's `config/_default/hugo.toml`:
```toml
[module]
  [[module.imports]]
    path = "github.com/evensollid/SolidResume"
```

3. Download the module and tidy dependencies:
```bash
hugo mod get github.com/evensollid/SolidResume@latest
hugo mod tidy
```

4. Place your CV data (YAML/JSON) inside your site's `data/` directory. SolidResume reads CV content from the consuming project's data files, not from within the module itself.

5. Start the development server:
```bash
hugo server -D
```

Open http://localhost:1313 in your browser to see your CV.

### Local test site (exampleSite)

This repo includes an `exampleSite/` folder with dummy CV data for local testing only. The root module contains no example content; all placeholder data lives under `exampleSite/data/`. If you want to test and develop against the example site, see the [exampleSite/README.md](exampleSite/README.md) for more information.

## Configuration Boundary

This module intentionally does not define site-level settings. Consumers must set these in their own site config (`config/_default/hugo.toml`), while the module only exports layouts, assets, i18n, archetypes, and theme data.

- Set in your site:
  - `baseURL`, `languageCode`, `title`
  - `defaultContentLanguage`, `defaultContentLanguageInSubdir`
  - `[languages]` (and per-language params)
  - `[outputs]`, `[pagination]`
  - `[params]` (including theme defaults and author image)
  - `[markup.goldmark.renderer].unsafe`
  - `[privacy]`

- Provided by the module:
  - `layouts/`, `assets/`, `i18n/`, `archetypes/`, `data/themes/`

Use `exampleSite/config/_default/hugo.toml` as a reference for a working setup, and copy only what you need into your own site.

## Theming

SolidResume supports multiple color palettes out of the box:

- **Default Light** / **Default Dark** (auto-mode follows system preference)
- **Solarized Light**
- **Solarized Dark**
- **Nord**

Themes are data-driven (`/data/themes/*.yaml`) and can be extended with your own palettes. The theming system is integrated via Hugo Modules and can be customized in your site's configuration.

### Configuration

In your `config/_default/hugo.toml`, set the default theme:

```toml
[params.themes]
default = "auto"
```

## Install & Update (Hugo Modules)

- Install (after adding the import in Quickstart):
  ```bash
  hugo mod get github.com/evensollid/SolidResume@latest
  hugo mod tidy
  ```

- Pin a version:
  - Choose a tag and pin in your module cache:
    ```bash
    hugo mod get github.com/evensollid/SolidResume@vX.Y.Z
    hugo mod tidy
    ```
  - Your site’s `go.mod` will record the pinned version.

- Update later:
  - Get the newest compatible version:
    ```bash
    hugo mod get -u github.com/evensollid/SolidResume
    hugo mod tidy
    ```
  - Or jump to a specific tag:
    ```bash
    hugo mod get github.com/evensollid/SolidResume@vX.Y.Z
    ```

- Optional: Vendor the module (offline/CI stability):
  ```bash
  hugo mod vendor
  ```
  This writes dependencies to `/_vendor/`. Commit that directory to keep builds reproducible without network access. To stop using vendor, remove `/_vendor/` and run `hugo mod tidy`.

## Troubleshooting Modules

- Check module graph: See what Hugo resolves and from where.
  ```bash
  hugo mod graph
  ```

- Clean cache: Fix stale downloads or version drift.
  ```bash
  hugo mod clean
  hugo mod tidy
  ```

- Clear vendored deps: If using `/_vendor/`, remove it to force re-resolve.
  ```bash
  rm -rf _vendor/
  hugo mod tidy
  ```

- Cache directory errors: If you see “cacheDir must resolve to an absolute directory”, pass an absolute path.
  ```bash
  hugo --cacheDir "$PWD/.hugo_cache"
  ```

- Network-restricted builds: Prefer vendoring for CI/offline.
  ```bash
  hugo mod vendor
  ```

- Update Hugo: Module issues often clear up by updating to a recent Hugo Extended.
  ```bash
  hugo version
  # Install or upgrade per your OS
  ```

- Local development against a fork: Use in your own site only (not in production) to test local changes.
  ```toml
  [module]
    [[module.imports]]
      path = "github.com/evensollid/SolidResume"
  # go.mod in your site (not in this module)
  # replace github.com/evensollid/SolidResume => ../path/to/local/module
  ```

## Languages

SolidResume supports multilingual sites. Each language needs:

- A language entry in your `config/_default/hugo.toml` under `[languages]`.
- A corresponding CV data file at `data/cv/<lang>.yaml` (or `.json`/`.toml`).
- Optional: an i18n translation file at `i18n/<lang>.toml` for UI strings.

### Enable multiple languages

```toml
defaultContentLanguage = "en"
defaultContentLanguageInSubdir = true

[languages]
  [languages.en]
    languageName = "English"
    weight = 1

  [languages.nb]
    languageName = "Norsk"
    weight = 2

  # Add more languages as needed
  [languages.de]
    languageName = "Deutsch"
    weight = 3
```

### Add a new language’s content

1) Create a data file `data/cv/<lang>.yaml`, e.g. `data/cv/de.yaml`.
2) Include at least `profile.name` so the title renders. See “CV Data Format” below.
3) UI translations: if your language isn’t bundled, add `i18n/<lang>.toml` in your site with keys used by the theme (e.g., `about`, `experience`, `education`, `projects`, `skills`, `languages`, `contact`, `download_pdf`).

The language switcher shows all configured languages; the current language is not a link.

### Built-in UI translations

This module ships with i18n files for these languages. Add the language under `[languages]` in your site config to use them; site-level `i18n/<lang>.toml` files override the module’s strings.

- en (English)
- nb (Norwegian Bokmål)
- ja (Japanese)
- zh (Chinese)
- es (Spanish)
- fr (French)
- pt (Portuguese)
- de (German)
- da (Danish)
- sv (Swedish)
- fi (Finnish)
- nl (Dutch)
- is (Icelandic)

## Author Image

Place your avatar in `static/` and set:

```toml
[params.author]
image = "/img/author.jpg"  # absolute path or full URL
```

The image renders in the header. A square image works best.

## CV Data Format

Store CV data per language, e.g. `data/cv/en.yaml`, `data/cv/nb.yaml`. YAML example with supported sections and fields:

```yaml
profile:
  name: "Your Name"           # required (used for the page title)
  role: "Your Role"           # optional
  location: "City, Country"   # optional
  email: "you@example.com"    # optional
  url: "https://your-site"    # optional
  summary: |
    One or two short paragraphs about you.
  links:                       # optional; rendered inline
    - label: "LinkedIn"
      url: "https://linkedin.com/in/you"
    - label: "GitHub"
      url: "https://github.com/you"

experience:                    # optional list; omit to hide section
  - company: "Company A"
    role: "Senior Engineer"
    start: "2022-01"          # recommend ISO-8601 (YYYY or YYYY-MM)
    end: "2024-06"            # omit or remove for current role
    summary: "Short blurb of impact and scope."
    bullets:
      - "Achievement or responsibility one"
      - "Achievement two"

education:                     # optional list
  - school: "University X"
    degree: "B.Sc. in Y"
    start: "2018"
    end: "2021"

projects:                      # optional list
  - name: "Project Name"
    url: "https://project.example"
    summary: "What it is and your role."

skills:                        # optional flat list
  - "Go"
  - "Hugo"
  - "Accessibility"

spoken_languages:              # optional list
  - name: "English"
    level: "Native"
  - name: "German"
    level: "Professional"

contact:                       # optional; renders a simple list
  email: "you@example.com"
  website: "https://your-site"
```

Notes:
- Any top‑level section can be omitted; templates only render sections that are present and non‑empty.
- Dates:
  - Use ISO formats `YYYY`, `YYYY-MM`, or `YYYY-MM-DD` for `start`/`end` to get machine‑readable `<time datetime="…">` markup.
  - For ongoing roles, set `end: "Present"` (or your localized equivalent). Non‑ISO values render as plain text (not inside `datetime`) to keep HTML5 valid.
  - Alternatively, omit `end` entirely for current roles.
- Links in `profile.links` render inline with separators.
- Data is read from the consuming site, not from within the module.

## Roadmap

- [x] Basic Hugo module scaffolding
- [x] Data-driven CV content (YAML/JSON) in consuming project
- [x] Multilingual setup
- [x] Theming support via Hugo Modules
- [ ] Print stylesheet for PDF export
- [ ] SEO + structured data integration

## Contributing

Contributions, ideas, and feedback are welcome! Please note that the project is in an early stage, so discussions and issue reports are especially valuable.

## License

MIT © Even Roland Sollid
